
EMPATHY
Nido Learners bring an open heart and open mind to understand the needs and perspectives of others.
Emotional Awareness
Deep Listening
Perspective- Taking


EMPATHY
How might my biases influence how I approach others?
How might other peoples’ experiences have shaped their perspectives? 
What are some other ways of looking at this? 
What background or perspective is this person bringing to this conversation? 
How might a sense of compassion affect this dynamic?
How do I communicate and speak with others’ perspectives in mind?
How might it feel to be.…?
What do I have in common with this person? 
How can I make a connection to this person?
How might I listen to truly understanding the other person / perspective /situation?

EMPATHY
Performance Area
Developmental Continuum
Emotional Awareness
Mirrors the emotions of others
Can describe how they believe another person or character is feeling
 
Uses emotional awareness to relate to and support others
Applies emotional awareness to help solve a problem or understand an issue
Deep Listening
Demonstrates emotional engagement when listening to others
Reflects feeling and message back to communicator
Reframes communication to demonstrate close listening and a desire to understand
Validates the message and the emotions/perspectives behind them to make the communicator feel valued
Perspective- Taking
Can grasp what another is thinking
Attempts to see issues from another’s perspective to develop insight into events and scenarios
 
 
Identify, articulate and evaluate one’s own perspective toward an event or scenario
Evaluates and applies different perspectives to reach common ground in complex situations related to inequities or justice

REFLECTION
Nido Learners engage deeply with themselves and their experiences and develop a deep awareness of the content and processes that foster their growth and help them make sense of their world.
Learning from Experience
Metacognition
Using Feedback

REFLECTION
What process did I use to get here?
Did the end result meet my original expectations? 
Who might give me feedback on these ideas? 
How might I incorporate this feedback into my process?
What contributed to the success or failure of this work? 
Can I use what I learnt to teach others?
What came easily to me?
What was hard?  Do I know why it was hard?
How can I succeed or be more successful next time?
What’s next for me?
In what direction should I go next?
What tools or strategies should I use next time?
What future challenges do I anticipate? 
What might I do differently next time? 
How can I improve next time?
Can I be more efficient next time?

How did that go? 
How do I know if I succeeded?
How does this learning compare to other things I have learned? 
How would I describe my learning journey?
What surprised me about the process?


REFLECTION
Performance Area
Growth Progression
Learning from Experience
Reflects on a learning experience, first in simple, concrete terms, then moving into greater abstraction and the ability to articulate insights
Compares and contrasts new reflections to previous ones, using evidence and artifacts, and can describe how they might approach a similar challenge in the future
Synthesizes insights derived from different learning experiences and contexts to develop a sophisticated set of understandings
Chooses a path to success and goal attainment based on self-awareness and reflections of past learning
Metacognition
Identifies and describes specific learning experiences to learn about the self as a learner
Recognizes and evaluates personal response and relative success of a variety of learning processes
Articulates the role of multiple facets on learning success (context, connection/relevance, environmental, social-emotional, cognitive, learning style, etc.) as part of their understanding of self as a learner
Applies a range of learning tools and processes independently and purposefully based on awareness of self as a learner
Using Feedback
Makes choices for learning based on teacher feedback
 
Selects appropriate strategies and tools based on feedback from teachers and/or peers
Develops strategies and tools to be a successful learner based on actionable, specific feedback from others
Synthesizes feedback from multiple sources and proactively applies strategies to address areas of strength and need as a learner
 

CURIOSITY
Nido Learners show wonder about the world. 
Inquisitive
Navigating Ambiguity
Engaged

CURIOSITY

What are some other perspectives?
What are some other ways of experiencing that? 
What makes an engaging question? 
How do I break a big question into smaller questions? 
What makes that so complicated? 
What are some benefits of not having a clear or concrete answer to this question? 
Will I ever know the full truth behind this issue? 
What are some benefits of uncertainty?
Why is it like that? 
Does it have to be that way?  
What are some other possibilities?
Are there other ways we might approach this? 
How can I learn more? 

CURIOSITY
Performance Area
Growth Progression
Inquisitive
 
Expresses open wonder about the world and accepts challenges and ideas that may be counter to their thinking
Begins to follow a sequence of questions to go deeper into area of interest or focus

Narrows inquiries, problems or issues through probing questions
Formulates rich, thought-provoking questions that are clearly grounded in the area of focus, that guide investigation, and reveals critical thinking skills and prior knowledge
Comfortable with Ambiguity
Demonstrates a level of comfort with the unknown and welcomes surprises
Realizes that multiple sources and perspectives can help resolve ambiguity and that ambiguity is not always a problem
Embraces complexity and ambiguity: see these as a manageable and exciting challenge
Knows when to “unlearn” past thinking as a way to address new challenges flexibly
Engaged
Demonstrates a desire to move from passive wonderings to active investigation
 
Actively seeks new ideas and perspectives to inform an approach to a challenge, problem or dilemma

Demonstrates a desire to choose and experience a topic they know less about over one with which they are already familiar
Tackles challenging dilemmas that don’t have obvious solutions, despite the potential for failure

PERSEVERANCE
What mental blocks are preventing me from moving forward? 
What is causing the biggest challenge for me?
Do I see a pattern to my mistakes?
What might be some other ways of approaching this? 
What are some other strategies I might try? 
What can this mistake teach me? 
What would a different mental model look like?
Who might be able to help me think through this? 
What other resources might I consult?


How can I stay positive and engaged when the learning is hard? 
What are some ways I can manage my frustration?
What if I take a step back and come at it from a different direction? 

PERSEVERANCE
Nido Learners persist when learning is challenging.
Optimism
Self-Efficacy
Tenacity

PERSEVERANCE
Performance Area
Growth Progression
Optimism
Across a range of learning experiences,
 
Demonstrates enthusiasm towards new learning and actively seeks opportunities to engage in new learning outside of his/her comfort zone
Maintains an open mind and remains positive in the face of challenges
Self-Efficacy
Takes pride in independent work and articulates feelings of competence and confidences as a learner
Uses organizational
tools and strategies to accomplish tasks and reach goals independently
 
 
 
Takes manageable risks in the learning process that prioritize long-term goals over short-term gratification
 
Independently manages the emotional and organizational elements of complex learning challenges and embodies a belief that he/she can accomplish a task
Tenacity
Keeps trying when faced with a challenge, and quickly recovers from setbacks
 
Manages impulse to quit when faced with adversity, and uses failure as an opportunity to learn and achieve success through other means or pathways
 
Perseveres through longer projects and experiences, taking manageable risks as part of the learning process
 
 
Seeks and uses feedback as a mechanism for growth
Self-Management or Self-Regulation

SELF-DIRECTION
What tools might help me keep organised?
What are some of my strengths that I can use to help me with this?
Where can I go to to get help?
What can I use to help me?
What’s needed here?
What do I need to do?
What’s my goal? 
What steps will help me get there? 
How might this look at the end or when it’s finished? 
How do I begin? 
What’s a manageable first step?
What resources are available for me?
What adjustments may be needed? 
What are the areas where I might need to ask for assistance?
What are the consequences if I do or do not complete this work? 
How might I stay organized? 

SELF-DIRECTION
Nido Learners lead their own learning. 
Taking Initiative
Conscious Planning
Task and Resource Management

SELF-DIRECTION
Performance Area
Growth Progression
Initiative
Sees something that needs to be done and does it without prompting
Seeks active engagement with others to benefit the world around them

Takes the role of active problem solver within and beyond their community
Applies awareness of own strengths and weaknesses to proactively contribute to personal and larger causes 
Goal-setting and planning
Identifies needs and next steps
Prioritizes needs and designs a plan to accomplish identified goals 

Monitors progress towards goals by consistently tracking progress using data and evidence
Monitors progress towards goals using a variety of evidence and adjusts planning as needed
Task and Resource Management
Uses given resources and information effectively within the learning environment
Seeks out relevant resources and information to support learning goals
Flexibly manages time, resources, and relevant information to support learning goals
Flexibly selects, adapts or develops a range of resources and appropriate strategies to improve learning

